Talk with Jeromy from IPFS 

- DHT network of random computers - defines which connections you should have in the network 
- every peer gets a random ID, metric that tells you which other IDs are near your ID, you crawl through the DHT and find close peers, find the set of peers that is closest to you
- once you've built up the set of close peers, you are considered bootstrapped. 
- want to find the aadrvark page: 
    - assume we have the content hash (how do we get it? later.)
    - content hash is a random space – to find out who has the data, you look up the peers in the DHT that are closest to the content hash, ask your peers for peers that are closer, normally only need a couple of requests to find a set. They are storing a pointer to the data - connect directly to that peer and request that data. This can happen in <100ms. The whole network shares the burden of remembering what is where. 
- what does a closer peer mean?
    - DHT Kademia(sp?) - each key is 256 bit hash value, to figure out what is closest, if you have 20 peers, take their peer IDs and XOR with the content hash, whichever peers come back with the smallest value, those are the closest. "The more leading bits match, the closer you are"
    - There are multiple separate networks of IPFS - over 200k nodes
- Design tradeoffs 
    - way of representing data structures - reference things by their hash, Merkle root - build a tree and hash each node in the tree, and hash of root node is used to ref everything else 
    - lots of ways to do merkle trees, came up with a proto buff structure that just won't die, linked data graphs, but the proto buff is still everywhere. 