Feeling pretty finished with the first golang project to build the xkcd search tool, I don't want to post it in the channel because nobody else has posted theirs yet and I'm feeling a little shy. I feel like it was a decent pass at it though. I'm considering seeing if anybody wants to pair up on the other go exercise, I'm feeling like there aren't any chances to just get to know my classmates and I want to start building some comfort level so everybody doesn't feel awk asking questions and stuff. 

Tonight our weekly check in is with the current CSI 1 cohort so it's a Q&A session. I haven't thought of any good questions to ask them yet so I'm going to brainstorm some now in case it's crickets tonight: 

- What were some of the areas during the prep phase that looking back you wish you'd spent more time on? Any knowledge gaps you didn't know you had that were not in the prep materials you wished you'd filled for yourself? 
- What are some things you are doing now that you wish you'd been doing from the beginning in terms of study habits or collaboration with your cohort or the instructors?
- What's the distribution of writing code vs reading papers vs doing other stuff etc. 
- Are you all doing about 10-15 hours a week? More? Less? How have you built that time into your schedule and kept up your motivation, especially those with jobs? Also have any of you quit your jobs? Those of you that have, were you planning on it before starting ....?
- Are any of you writing about your experience on a blog that we can follow? 

that's plenty.. 

Anyway, moving on to the unix shell, feeling like my time has been well spent, 2 weeks on C, 2 weeks on golang, almost to the day. I think I can breeze through shell and move to math pretty quick since I'm already somewhat comfortable but would love to learn just a bit more over the next few days, especially some of the commands I always have to check the man page for. 

# Notes from sync up

reps from CSI 1: Jake, SWE manager at Autodesk. Ansel - started at GTech online masters, decided to do bradfield instead. Stephen - 2 years out of bootcamp, SWE at Lyft, has worked on backend and now is on infra. Brian - works at Autodesk as an IC (individual contributor) 3-4 years, full stack developer. 

They are about to start databases. 

- feedback on the prep phase 
    - shell exercises were useful but didn't come up much, wasn't fundamental. C and Go are the most important 2. Some people later said they wished they'd gotten Go really solid earlier on. Other guy: every ounce of C is more and more helpful, especially thinking about Go or anything else that comes up at Bradfield or at work. Anything more about C allows pushing deeper. Bash stuff was super practical. 
    - Augementing Cognition article. 
    - Anki – take notes while reading and in class. Drop into Anki card. Half an hour a night using Anki stuff to review. Example: memorized powers of 2 early on, made it easier to read whitepaper in the data structures class. 
        - http://augmentingcognition.com/ltm.html

- what has changed for them?
    - Stephen, Jake, Ansel: be disciplined about pushing even if you aren't finished. Easy to get into the habit of not pushing if you feel like you. Sharing code snippets on slack. Pairing on harder assignments is really useful, working on LevelDB in C, calling into from Go. Feel like he's still undervaluing opportunities to pair with other classmates. Start bradfield before work at 8am at his best, this way he always get something in. 
    - Oz: this guy would wake up early to study for 1-2 hours before his kids woke up. Studied on the train to work. Worked through textbooks this way, papers, areas of research, and in 6 months he got to the same level as the Stanford and Berkeley grads. 
    - "You learn a surprising amount reading one paper a day." - Jamie Brandon (created Even, https://scattered-thoughts.net/) 

Escaping Web – podcast series from Bradfield students. One student went into Quantum Computing. Took like 6 months off, did novel work, presented his work at FOSDEM. Another student: started learning OS's, quit job, wrote an OS to learn, interviewed at a bunch of places. Stripe hired him to work on a compiler. 

Circling back to the C topic – the more the better, even getting one level deeper into the assembly. 