Making progress on the Go book. On Ch 4 at the moment, learning about structs and JSON. Just wanted to capture some thoughts about Go, building on what I observed before I just love how they intentionally have kept things extremely simple by pruning away language features that are accomplished by reusing more core keywords or data structures for the same purpose. Take maps for example. These are easily reused as Sets, and Go encourages you to do this instead of having a separate builtin set data structure. Already mentioned this but not having any loop except a for loop drastically simplifies how you can express an iteration and makes it easier to understand what the range keyword is doing – you basically just have to understand how to iterate through each data structure and you can negotiate data in Go pretty easily. 

I also like how they simplified OO programming down to types and methods, pushing composition over inheritance through anonymous fields / embedding. AND JSON marshalling is just baked into the type via metadata tags. In some ways I find that weird but I love how expressive it is and how it recognizes that data serialization is so core to what programmers often are doing with data. 

I'm just kind of reading through the book right now without stopping to do many of the exercises because a lot of this stuff feels intuitive to me. I'm basically planning to give it one full pass, hopefully finish the book by Wednesday, and then spend the next week between sync ups going through all the exercises to test my understanding and do the completion exercises. 

And then I can reinforce all this stuff through the data structures and algos section. 

One thing if the weekly check in is slow, this paragraph: 

> Many programming language implementations use a fixed-size function call stack; sizes from 64KB to 2MB are typical. Fixed-size stacks impose a limit on the depth of recursion, so one must be careful to avoid a stack overflow when traversing large data structures recursively; fixed-size stacks may even pose a security risk. In contrast, typical Go implementations use variable-size stacks that start small and grow as needed up to a limit on the order of a gigabyte. This lets us use recursion safely and without worrying about overflow.

Could be interesting to discuss with the group. Would want to dig in a bit on how tail-call optimization work and variable size stacks work. Also what does it mean depending on the implementation of Go? Does that mean based on the compiler? 

I know I'm gushing about Go, but just got to the section on error handling and I'm finding it so straightforward. Things fail – deal with it explicitly! And I love the clear delineation between errors that we can expect to happen and handle, vs considering everything an "exception" and leaving it up to the programmer to decide what exceptions to throw and which to handle. Errors are normal values unless they truly are exceptional circumstances the code can't handle, in which case -> panic. 
