metcalfes law – value of network increases quadratically with number of nodes

invention of a transitor - ATT / Bell Labs 

how do electromagnetic switches work?
 
what does a transistor do? replaces the electromagnetic switch. No maintenance required. silicon with boron and phosphorous to carry a current or not depending on the voltage 

the core of it was that ATT wanted to automate circuit switching because it was inefficient – there is bandwidth waste because the whole channel is consumed by nodes on each end of a communication. With packet switching, all nodes are buffering packets and forwards it on based on the forwarding table. 

ALOHANet - radio wave based network, basically attempt to send and then randomly backoff if you fail to get through. This is a simple protocol because you don't have to assign out slots or enforce rules across the network. 

Bob Metcalfe - invented ALOHANet and commercialized Ethernet at 3COM. Xerox Park labs researcher. 

carrier-sense medium access with collision detection 

MAC - medium access control address

what is used for addressing at the link layer? MAC address

what is in an ethernet cable? two individually insulated copper wires that are twisted together and then further insulated. twisting them reduces interference. ethernet can also run over fiber optic too which is insulation and a glass tube that the photon bounces down

bradfield course requests: cryptography, history of computing, 

Network security

- how do we ensure confidentiality over the network? encryption
- how do we ensure integrity of the messages sent? MAC Message Authentication Codes 
- how do we authenticate parties we are communicating with over the network? CAs and digital signatures 


takes approx 1-10ms to decrypt using RSA or similar asymetric schemes, which is why we use hybrid schemes. Faster to decrypt. 

what did tls 1.3 add to tls 1.2?
