Reflecting on the first module: 

Covered a ton of ground and this was a pretty challenging module for me overall because almost all of the content was unfamiliar. 

- Started with the CPU, fetch decode execute, clock cycles, and we built the VM for interpretting the simple assembly instructions. 
- We dug into binary, hex, other encoding schemes and I feel like I at least have a grasp even if I can't convert it all in my head super fast. 
- Write some nasm, got an understanding of what godbolt is doing and how to look at disassembly in a hex editor like objdump 
- Then started looking into what the computer was actually doing in detail - exploring optimization techniques like loop unrolling, using the correct data types. 
- We looked at the memory hierarchy which I feel like I've got a decent understanding of, L1-L3 caches, main memory, disk, network etc and the tradeoffs. 
- We then looked at caching in detail which was the period I was out for the weddings and I'd say that was the toughest class for me to understand what was going on. 
- And then we had a class on exceptional control flow which I really enjoyed because it started to get into how the OS interacts with our programs and with the CPU. 

I feel that I've got a decent high level understanding of what's happening under the hood of a computer now, and I've also built up an intuitive understanding that information is just bits + context – a lot of this just has to do with how we've decided to encode information on a physical machine and we've just built smarter and smarter ways to make that approach work better. 

I'm excited to continue moving to "up the stack" because I think the closer we get to higher level abstractions the more familiar it will feel. Right now I feel like I've started building a bridge across a chasm, good foundation but it's not as connected as I'd like to the rest of the knowledge I've got. 