What is the compiler doing when you declare an int pointer?

eg `int * x;`

It's allocating memory to point at an address. On a 64 bit machine, thats 8 bytes, 64 bits. 

Same thing for any type. 

If we declare an int array `int foo [5]` this is setting aside 20 bytes (each integer is generally 4 bytes but this can depend on the machine.) foo is a pointer to the beginning of the array in memory. The type of the array is important because it allows us to do pointer arithmetic. We can access the next item in the array by moving along the memory address from the beginning of the array + the size of a single type. 

Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thomson created C (mostly Ritchie), while Thompson was writing Unix. They were created side by side. Rob Pike was at Bell Labs too, worked on Unix a bit and created an OS called Plan 9. This informed the creation of Golang. 

What's the point of a stack? Why do we have stack memory? What about heap memory? (need to dig in here, was just listening and got lost in the discussion on stack frames and dangling pointers). Anyway, golang gets rid of the dangling pointer problem using a compile time analysis – if the compiler can prove that the variable isn't referenced outside of the function it will allocate memory on the stack – otherwise it will put it on the heap. 

Slab allocation: taking into account what memory will be needed ahead of time and allocating a contiguous block on the heap as a way to keep the heap orderly.

There is a step through debugger in c! GDB https://u.osu.edu/cstutorials/2018/09/28/how-to-debug-c-program-using-gdb-in-6-simple-steps/ compile with -g and execute as gdb. Valgrind also useful apparently 

https://www.developerfiles.com/debugging-c-with-clang-compiler-and-lldb/
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/8102143/how-to-build-and-install-valgrind-on-mac 

